---
published: true
layout: post
tags:
  - thinking
img: post1.png
---
## Skill or CGPA: What Should Be the Main Focus?

As students, we are often pressured to focus solely on achieving a high CGPA. We believe that our grades define our worth and pave the way for a successful future. But the truth is, a CGPA is just a number, and it does not truly define who we are as individuals. What truly matters in the real world are the skills we possess and our ability to apply them in different situations.

In today’s world, skill is the key to a successful career. In our conventional way of learning, we often put all our efforts into getting the best grades. However, in doing so, we neglect to develop the essential skills that make us strong individuals. We generally believe that getting into a good college or university ensures our future success. But the world is changing fast and constantly. In this competitive world, only skilled personalities are going to be the winners. Although having a high CGPA and getting into a top university might help someone land their first job, the question should be asked if those 4-6 years of solely studying are worth it or not.

Consider two people: one is the class topper, and the other is a mediocre student. The first one worked hard and got a high CGPA; the second one performed just like everyone else, but he has impressive soft and hard skills. If they both get jobs in the same company, the first one will start at a slightly higher position than the second one. But there is a good chance that the second one will surpass the first one in a year. Because in the real world, CGPA is not everything; employers only care about the people who can do their work more effectively.

Even at the top foreign universities, they seek two kinds of students for admission. One is the student who excelled in their academics; the other is the student who was very active in extracurricular activities while maintaining a decent result, unlike ours.

Skills are more important than CGPA because they demonstrate your ability to apply theoretical knowledge to real-world situations. Skills such as problem-solving, critical thinking, communication, teamwork, creativity, and adaptability are essential for success in any career path. By focusing on developing your skills, you will be able to achieve your goals and fulfill your potential. Therefore, instead of obsessing over your CGPA, you should invest your time and energy in building your skills and exploring your interests. This will not only make you a better student but also a better person.

The whole point of discussing this topic is to explain even a bigger problem, about which we will come to talk soon. Until then, please comment below to share your opinion with critical reasoning.
